- In this lesson, we're going to use JSON P's object model
API to create a jsonObject and a jsonArray.
We'll do that by using two of the builders found within
the object model API.
All of our work is going to take place within
our Order resource and we're going to start out by
removing our customerObject, as well as our console
output.
Then, within the body of the resource method
we can start to build out out jsonObject.
This object is going to be used to create some
tracking information about the order, so we'll be able to
see when the order was created and see different statuses
that it goes through.
Let's start by building an objectBuilder and
we just use the jsonObjectBuilder type and I'm
going to name this objectBuilder
jsonTrackingObjectBuilder.
Then to create the
objectBuilder we use the jsonObject and it has a
createObjectBuilder method on it.
Then from here we can start chaining
using its fluent API, so we'll invoke the add operation
and this going to accept two arguments, the first of which
is the name of the property we want to add to the object.
In our case it's going to be the 'orderDate' and then we can
assign a value in the second argument.
We're going to use the localDateTime object
to get the current date and time.
Then we'll send that to a string.
And there we've created our first jsonObjectBbuilder.
Now, we haven't built the jsonObject yet, we'll do
that in a little bit.
Next we're going to use a jsonArrayBuilder
and we'll name this the jsonStatusArrayBuilder.
WE're going to build an array that tracks the different
statuses the order goes through with this builder.
So let's create the arrayBuilder using the jsonObject
and its createArrayBuilder method.
Just like the objectBuilder, it has a fluent API,
so we can chain calls, and what we're actually going to
do is nest an object within the array.
So, we're going to use the objectBuilder and then we're
going to add a 'status' property on the object
and then we're going to provide a value
where the status is 'RECEIVED'.
Then we'll need to build that jsonObject.
So we're going to add one more status to our array.
So I'm just going to copy that line, and then we're
going to change the status over to 'SENT_FOR_PROCESSING'.
Okay, so now we have our jsonArrayBuilder.
What we're going to do next is take our
jsonTrackingObjectBuilder and we're going to add
another property and that property's name is going to be
'statuses'
Then we're going to use our jsonStatusArrayBuilder
and we're going to build the array and attach
it to a property on the object called 'statuses'.
From there we're going to take the original object,
which was passed into our resource method, and
that's our order, if you remember.
We're going to add the TrackingObject to that
jsonObject.
So, we'll assign the jsonObject to the result of
creating a new objectBuilder and then we're going to
pass in our jsonObject, and then from there we can
continue to use the method chaining to add
a 'tracking' object.
Then we're going to leverage our
jsonTrackingObjectBuilder, and we're going to go ahead
build that object.
Let's drop this down to another line so we can see.
Then finally, we'll need to build our new object.
At this point we have a new jsonObject which is an order
that contains tracking information.
So, let's go ahead we'll clean things up here a little bit.
Then we're just going to add some console output so that
we can run a test.
The console output we're going to provide, we're
just going to take our new jsonObject and send it
to a string.
With all that in place, let's go ahead and run our
application.
So there we see it starting up.
I'm going to make sure we got our console and then
I'll clear it.
Then we'll go ahead and right-click on our PowerShow
command.
We'll run that command, which will send the API traffic
Now let's take a look at our console again.
Here you can see the new jsonObject that we created.
There we see the customer, we see the items that they
have selected.
Then we should see our trackingObject.
Right there it was.
You can also see the statuses that were found
on our trackingObject.
Right there, that information or that json was added
to our existing object, by using the different builders
within the jsonp object model API.